---
id: 176
title: 101 songs from 2007!
date: 2008-01-07T22:13:33-05:00
author: damon
layout: post
guid: http://www.radioslipstream.com/features/lists/2008/01/my-top-101-songs-from-2007/
permalink: /features/lists/2008/01/my-top-101-songs-from-2007/
categories:
  - lists and countdowns
---
I’m running a bit late with my top albums of 2007 podcast, I know. Mostly because I’m being OCD about it and cramming in relistenings to as many albums as I can.. new and old and oft-heard already&#8230; you know, just so I can be sure of my rankings. POINTLESSS. BUT! When it’s finished, you everyone’s gonna get their mind shot off/blown/kaboodled. Well as long as they listen to it (with the right combination of drugs).

ANYWAY

in the meantime, here is, sans any sort of commentary, my 101 favourite songs of 2007, unordered, 1 per artist. Now it would be pointless to just list ’em&#8230; unless of course I provided means for procurement, and I have done exactly that, in the form of [this torrent](http://www.radioslipstream.com/101 songs from 2007.torrent) which contains all of the songs (in roughly 818 mb)

<!--more-->

2080 (Yeasayer)  
23 (Blonde Redhead)  
Always (Amon Tobin)  
Apnea Obstructiva (Savath & Savalas)  
Atom (British Sea Power)  
Back On The Calder Line (Bracken)  
Bad Kids (Black Lips)  
Beautiful Burnout (Underworld)  
Brace Yourself (Les Savy Fav)  
Bubbles (Dizzee Rascal)  
Chainsaw (Aidan Baker)  
Clickety Clack (Sage Francis)  
Cold Days From the Birdhouse (The Twilight Sad)  
Colleen (Joanna Newsom)  
Conqueror (Jesu)  
D.A.N.C.E. (Justice)  
Dance For Me (CunninLynguists)  
Deserter (Matthew Dear)  
Disaster (The Besnard Lakes)  
Dumb It Down (Lupe Fiasco feat. Gemstones & Graham Burris)  
Ed Is A Portal (Akron/Family)  
Electric Blue (Shape of Broad Minds)  
Elephant Gun (Beirut)  
Family Feud (Von Südenfed)  
Fancy Footwork (Chromeo)  
Fiery Crash (Andrew Bird)  
First Class Riot (The Tough Alliance)  
Flashing Lights (Kanye West feat. Dwele)  
For Reverend Green (Animal Collective)  
Forces Of Victory (Gogol Bordello)  
Heart it Races (Architecture In Helsinki)  
Heart Of Hearts (!!!)  
House by the Sea (Iron and Wine)  
Houseclouds (Liars)  
I Need You (Kathy Diamond)  
Impossible Germany (Wilco)  
In Our Talons (Bowerbirds)  
In The City (Chromatics)  
Isn’t Life Strange (The Clientele)  
I’ve Been Out Walking (Nina Nastasia And Jim White)  
Kanske Ar Jag Kar I Dig (Jens Lekman)  
Left Foot Stepdown (Bees)  
Lips Are Unhappy (Lucky Soul)  
Manchasm (Future Of The Left)  
Mankind Failed (Motiivi Tuntematon)  
March Into the Sea (Modest Mouse)  
Mate Tron (Luke Vibert)  
Maybe Lately (Miracle Fortress)  
Medusa (Ulrich Schnauss)  
Melody Day (Caribou)  
Murderer (Low)  
None Shall Pass (Aesop Rock)  
Not The Same Shoes (Kalabrese feat. Kate)  
Numbers (Booka Shade)  
Oh Yeah (The Cliks)  
One Two Three Four (Feist)  
Out There (Studio)  
Overpowered (Roisin Murphy)  
Overture (Patrick Wolf)  
Paper Planes (M.I.A.)  
Paranoia In Bb Major (The Avett Brothers)  
Paris Is Burning (St. Vincent)  
Pioneer To The Falls (Interpol)  
Premier Encuentro Latino-Americano (Ricardo Villalobos)  
Rainbowarriors (Cocorosie)  
Raver (Burial)  
Re: Stacks (Bon Iver)  
Reckoner (Radiohead)  
Rotten Hell (Menomena)  
Rumors (Josh Ritter)  
Saints (Gravenhurst)  
Same Old Drag (The Apples In Stereo)  
Saturday Waits (Loney, Dear)  
Saturn Strobe (Pantha du Prince)  
Silvia (Marissa Nadler)  
Sin Exagerar (Calle 13 feat. Tego Calderón)  
Singer Sing (Dean & Britta)  
Slow Show (The National)  
Snakes and Ladders (Basia Bulat)  
So I Felt (MIA)  
Someone Great (LCD Soundsystem)  
Sweet Decay (Gabriel Ananda)  
Swimming In The Swamp (The National Lights)  
Take Your Medicine (Cloud Cult)  
The Bones Of My Pets (Sole and the Skyrider Band)  
The Deal (The Field)  
The Lost Brigade (Ted Leo and The Pharmacists)  
The Overly Dramatic Truth (El-P)  
The Past Is a Grotesque Animal (Of Montreal)  
The Troglodyte Wins (Busdriver)  
To Build A Home (The Cinematic Orchestra feat. Patrick Watson)  
Unless It’s Kicks (Okkervil River)  
Warmer Climes (Boat Club)  
Weight of My Love (David Thomas Broughton vs. 7 Hertz)  
Welcome Home, Son (Radical Face)  
Wham City (Dan Deacon)  
Whatever you want (Club 8 )  
Winged/Wicked Things (Sunset Rubdown)  
You Got Yr. Cherry Bomb (Spoon)  
You! Me! Dancing! (Los Campesinos!)  
Your Lips And You (Bikeride)