---
id: 214
title: 100 Songs from 2009!
date: 2010-01-10T02:47:22-05:00
author: damon
layout: post
guid: http://www.radioslipstream.com/playlists/2010/01/100-songs-from-2009/
permalink: /features/lists/2010/01/100-songs-from-2009/
categories:
  - lists and countdowns
---
Like the last couple of years, I’ve put together my favourite songs from the year. Unlike previous years, more than half of these haven’t been on the podcast, so there will be some cool things I’ve not shared yet. I haven’t listened to as much new music this year as previously, so that may effect the results somehow. For now they are hosted on sendspace. A torrent may follow. If you have any distribution or content questions, comments or concerns, do voice them! And read on for the tracklist&#8230;

(Edit: Looks like the links did their expiring thing, so no dice. If you disagree with this situation lemme know and maybe we’ll see if we can provide an alternate solution)

<!--more-->

  
Akron/Family – River  
Alasdair Roberts – You Muses Assist  
Alela Diane – White As Diamonds  
Andrew Bird – Not a Robot, But a Ghost  
Animal Collective – Bluish  
Annie – Don’t Stop  
Antipop Consortium – Volcano  
The Antlers – Bear  
Antony And The Johnsons – Another World  
Art Brut – The Passenger  
Bat For Lashes – Daniel  
Bear in Heaven – Lovesick Teenagers  
Ben Frost – Killshot  
Bibio – Ambivalence Avenue  
Big Boi – Shine Blockas (feat. Gucci Mane)  
Bill Callahan – The Wind and The Dove  
Bon Iver – Blood Bank  
Bonnie &#8216;Prince’ Billy – Beware Your Only Friend  
Brother Ali – The Believers (feat. Slug  
Bruce Peninsula – crabapples  
Burial & Four Tet – Moth  
Camera Obscura – Swans  
Carter Burwell – A Serious Man  
Cass McCombs – You Saved My Life  
Circlesquare – Dancers  
Clark – Rainbow Voodoo  
Dälek – No Question  
Dan Auerbach – Trouble Weighs A Ton  
Dan Deacon – Snookered  
The Decemberists – The Rake’s Song  
Delorean – Deli  
Destroyer – Bay of Pigs  
Dinosaur Jr – Pieces  
Dirty Projectors – Stillness is the Move  
DJ Sprinkles – Sisters, I Don’t Know What This World Is Coming To  
DM Stith – Thanksgiving Moon  
DOOM – That’s that  
Doves – Jetstream  
Fashawn – When She Calls  
Fever Ray – Triangle Walks  
Finale – The Waiting Game (feat. Invincible)  
Flaming Lips – Silver Trembling Hands  
Four Tet – Love Cry  
Future Of The Left – Arming Eritrea  
Girls – Lust For Life  
Grizzly Bear – Ready, Able  
Handsome Furs – I’m Confused  
Here We Go Magic – Fangela  
The Horrors – Sea Within a Sea  
Hudson Mohawke – Overnight  
J Dilla – Mythsysizer  
jj – Ecstasy  
Joker – Digidesign  
Junior Boys – Work  
Kid Sister – Right Hand Hi  
King Midas Sound – Meltdown  
Kreng – Na De Sex  
Lhasa – Rising  
Mamer – Man  
Manic Street Preachers – Jackie Collins Existential Question Time  
Marissa Nadler – Brittle, Crushed & Torn  
Matias Aguayo – Menta Latte  
Matt & Kim – Daylight  
Me’Shell Ndegéocello – Love You Down  
Memory Tapes – Bicycle  
Micachu & the Shapes – Golden Phone  
Moderat – Seamonkey  
Mos Def – Auditiorium (feat. Slick Rick)  
Mr. Lif – The Sun  
Mr. SOS – Die For You  
Neko Case – This Tornado Loves You  
Neon Indian – Deadbeat Summer  
P.O.S. – Goodbye  
Passion Pit – Sleepyhead  
Patrick Watson – Big Bird In A Small Cage  
Raekwon – New Wu (feat. Ghostface Killah & Method Man)  
Redshape – Man out of Time  
Röyksopp – True To Life  
Shackleton – Mountains of Ashes  
Soap&Skin – Thanatos  
St. Vincent – The Strangers  
Sunset Rubdown – You Go on Ahead (Trumpet Trumpet II)  
Super Furry Animals – Inaugural Trams  
Thee Oh Sees – Tidal Wave  
Tim Hecker – Paragon Point  
Timber Timbre – Magic Arrow  
Tinariwen – Tahult In  
The Very Best – Julia  
Vitalic – See The Sea (Red)  
Volcano Choir – Island, IS  
Warsaw Village Band – 1,5 H  
Washed Out – Feel It All Around  
Wilco – Bull Black Nova  
Wild Beasts – We Still Got the Taste Dancing On Our Tongues  
The XX – Crystalised  
YACHT – Psychic City (Voodoo City)  
Yeah Yeah Yeahs – Zero  
Yeasayer – Tightrope  
Yo La Tengo – Here to Fall  
Yppah – Gumball Machine Weekend