---
id: 89
title: '010206: The Top 111 Albums of 2005 (Part 1)'
date: 2006-01-05T01:00:03-05:00
author: damon
excerpt: The top 111 of 2005 part 1
layout: post
guid: /wp/?p=89
permalink: /playlists/2006/01/010206-the-top-111-albums-of-2005-part-1/
filename: https://storage.googleapis.com/radioslipstream/radio/slipstream010206.mp3
categories:
  - PLAYLISTS
  - themes and specials
---
not originally aired on CFMU, thanks to last-minute crappy-ass computer crashes.

[(mp3)](https://storage.googleapis.com/radioslipstream/radio/slipstream010206.mp3)

The first part of a rather ambitious and perhaps deranged countdown.

**111: Nick Cave and Warren Ellis – The Proposition Original Soundtrack** (The Proposition #1)  
Atmospheric, at times pretty and others creepy as Nick Cave and Warren Ellis (a violinist who has worked with Cave on several albums) are so good at. It has a real character, and though I haven’t seen the movie yet, it builds a mood quite clearly and effectively on its own.

**110: Maxïmo Park – A Certain Trigger** (Acrobat)  
Another in the parade of British nu-wave seemingly cashing in on the success of Franz Ferdinand. This is a cut above the likes of the Kaiser Chiefs and The Bravery, though. Maximo Park take the sound and make it theirs.

**109: Black Rebel Motorcycle Club – Howl** (Shuffle your Feet)  
A huge departure for the band; turning from somber and gritty guitar-rock to gospel-tinged blues. Good to see a band progressing somehow, but this one was close. At first I hated it, but the craft is there and I eventually found myself actually wanting to listen to the album.

**108: Why? – Elephant Eye Lash** (Crushed Bones)  
An intriguing blend of indie rock and indie hip hop. Valuable, if only for the interesting sound it exudes, but listenable beyond that as well. Worth a listen.

**107: Boards Of Canada – The Campfire Headphase** (Satellite Anthem Icarus)  
Ambient electronicery by Scotland’s famed duo. Can feel a bit repetitive and uninspired at times, but there’s some beautiful stuff going on here.

**106: Metamatics – 3 Jak and Dive** (vlokal)  
Glitchy ambience almost in the style of BoC.

**105: Jason Collett – Idols of Exile** (Fire)  
Folk rock from the lead singer of Broken Social Scene. Pleasing to the ears, and some brilliant melodies.

**104: Xiu Xiu – La Foret** (Ale)  
Eerie minmalist and sometimes hard to listen to rock. Lead singer sounds pretty bent out of shape sometimes. A difficult listen, but let it weasel its way in and you may well find something valueable.

**103: Lemon Jelly – 64-95** (’64 aka Go)  
A bit of a departure for the group. Each song uses a sample from the year in the title. Sounds a little more traditional than previous Lemon Jelly offerings, but at the same time mature and accomplished. The DVD that comes with videos for every track is a treat.

**102: Pendulum – Hold Your Colour** (Fasten Your Seltbelt Feat. The Freestylers)  
Wicked drum and bass from Australia. Shades of Apollo 440. A ripping good time.

**101: Thomas Brinkmann – Lucky Hands** (THIRTY2)  
Delicate ambience. Sounds both natural and heavily computerized at the same time. Beautiful and subtle.

**100: Ry Cooder – Chavez Ravine** (Poor Man’s Shangri-La)  
A concept album from the veteran performer about the destruction of the titular community, a sort of commemoration of their unique way of life. Many different styles and very rich, Chavez Ravine has a lot to offer and it’s definitely one I feel would place a higher given some more time to sink in.

**99: M83 – Before the Dawn Heals Us** (Teen Angst)  
Bombastic synthesizer anthems. If you excuse how seriously it seems to take itself, very fun and at times profoundly beautiful.

**98: The Clientele – Strange Geometry** (Since K Got Over Me)  
Gentle guitar rock. Not much else to say. Quite well crafted.

**97: Espers – The Weed Tree** (Rosemary Lane)  
Medieval sounding psychfolk covers of everything from traditional ballads to Blue Oyster Cult, and an original.

**96: The Lucksmiths – Warmer Corners** (A Hiccup in Your Happiness)  
Sunshine and simple catchy pop melodies.

**95: The Rosebuds – Birds Make Good Neighbors** (Hold hands and fight)  
Not so different from Warmer Corners, a little more airy and straightforward.

**94: Common – Be** (Testify)  
Straightforward but certainly high quality hip hop from one of the genres notables.

**93: Stephen Malkmus – Face The Truth** (I’ve Hardly Been)  
Fun, catchy all-over-the-place light indie rock.

**92: Clap Your Hands Say Yeah! – Clap Your Hands Say Yeah!** (Details Of The War)  
Nice arrangements. Get a new singer.

**91: Keith Fullerton Whitman – Multiples** (Stereo Music for Acoustic Guitar, etc – Part One)  
Nice experimental ambience. Surprisingly complex and easy on the ears though it sounds strangely mathematical.

**90: The Herbaliser – Take London** (Song for Mary)  
Hiphop, reggae, soul and electronica flounce together in this rather lovely bit of music. Electronic music played on live instruments.

**89: Of Montreal – The Sunlandic Twins** (The Party’s Crashing Us)  
No Satanic Panic in the Attic, but there’s certainly some delicious gems here. Fantastic as a quantitative judgement (as in, the realms of fantasy), but not so much as previous offerings, and much more disco involved.

**88: Robyn – Robyn** (Be Mine!)  
A variety of styles and speeds, but all well-crafted electropop as always seems to be big in Europe.

..to be continued next week..