---
id: 58
title: "072406: the lost episode!"
date: 2006-11-07T02:20:45-05:00
author: damon
layout: post
guid: /wp/?p=58
permalink: /playlists/2006/11/072406-the-lost-episode/
filename: https://storage.googleapis.com/radioslipstream/radio/slipstream-2006-07-31.mp3
grbg: 163508224
  audio/mpeg
categories:
  - PLAYLISTS
---

(Apologizations for not getting this up right away. I been a busy boy)  
Originally aired at Midnight, Monday November 6, 2006 on [CFMU](http://cfmu.mcmaster.ca).  
Originally meant to air July 24, 2006.. almost 3 and a half months late is better than never, huh?  
The chance to actually get this baby on the air was afforded to me by me going on a lovely trip to Toronto to see that lovely band The Decemberists. Big ups to [Marco](http://marcodifronzo.com) for making sure it got on the air… unlike in the summer when the [show before it](?p=69) never got on the air during my actual timeslot, so it never had a chance. The audio bits were recorded around August 3rd.

And get this! the [mp3](https://storage.googleapis.com/radioslipstream/radio/slipstream-2006-07-31.mp3) is (at least for now) APS; so you can hear my beautiful voice at high quality.

-midnight-  
Alias & Tarsier / Cub / Brookland/Oaklyn (2006)  
Alpha / I just Wanna Make You / Stargazing (2003)  
-0:10-  
Shearwater / La Dame Et La Licorne / Palo Santo (2006)  
Guillemots / If The World Ends / Through The Windowpane (2006)  
A Silver Mount Zion / 13 Angels Standing Guard ‘Round the Side of Your Bed / He Has Left Us Alone, But Shafts of Light Sometimes Grace the Corner of Our Rooms (2000)  
-0:28-  
Wilco / At Least That’s What You Said / Kicking Television : Live in Chicago (2005)  
My Morning Jacket / Anytime / Okonokos (2006)  
Radiohead / Like Spinning Plates / I Might Be Wrong: Live Recordings (2001)  
-0:43-  
Matmos / Roses And Teeth For Ludwig Wittgenstein / The Rose Has Teeth In The Mouth of the Beast (2006)  
The Avalanches / Since I Left You / Since I Left You (2001)  
AFX / PWSteal.Ldpinch.D / Chosen Lords (2006)  
-0:56-  
LFO / LFO / Frequencies (1991)  
Alex Smoke / Chica Wappa (Mejor Edit) / Incommunicado (2005)  
Dub Pistols / Revolution / Six Million Ways To Live (2001)  
Basement Jaxx / Hey You / Crazy Itch Radio (2006)  
Pendulum / Slam / Hold Your Colour (2005)  
Massive Attack / I Against I / Collected (2006)  
-1:29-  
Nick Cave and Warren Ellis / Martha’s Dream / The Proposition OST (2005)  
Gustavo Santaolalla / De Ushuaia A La Quiaca / The Motorcycle Diaries OST (2004)  
James Newton Howard / Gravel Road / The Village OST (2004)  
-1:41-  
Stuart A. Staples / That Leaving Feeling (feat. Lhasa) / Leaving Songs (2006)  
Lambchop / Give Me Your Love (Love Song) / What Another Man Spills (1998)  
El Perro Del Mar / God Knows (You Gotta Give To Get) / El Perro Del Mar (2006)  
-1:55-  
The Mountain Goats / Moon Over Goldsboro / Get Lonely (2006)
